# Business Problem
MasterControl provides quality and manufacturing software for life sciences companies through two products that we were asked to focus on: Qx for quality management and Mx for manufacturing operations. While Qx is a mature, high-performing product with over 20 years in the market and a 19.7% conversion rate, Mx—launched four years ago lags behind at 12.7%. The main challenge is not just Mx’s relative newness, but a lack of clarity around its ideal customer profile, including which industries, company types, and job roles are most likely to convert. Buyer profiles successful for Qx do not always translate well to Mx. This misalignment has led to lower conversions, less effective outreach, and missed growth and cross-selling opportunities. The goal of the analysis is to identify high converting accounts and job titles to enable a more targeted, data-driven sales strategy.

# Solution to Business Problem
MasterControl needs a data-driven framework to improve their underperforming Mx product line (currently 12.7% conversion vs. ~18% company baseline) and optimize their outbound prospecting strategy. By implementing reproducible lead classification and segmentation recommendations, MasterControl can increase Mx conversion rates and substantially improve SDR productivity by focusing on high-propensity segments. The solution will provide automated title classification to standardize thousands of unique job title variations, segment prioritization that balances conversion rate with market opportunity (company size and volume), and actionable playbooks specifying which industries, company types, and buyer personas to target for scalable outbound growth.

We will use a predictive analytics model to identify which companies would be most likely to convert for the Mx product. We will analyze the data that has been given us from MasterControl from 2024-2025 to understand what trends can be identified for the companies that progressed with Mx. We will look at the various characteristics that have been provided to see which ones bring the most value to understand the difference in conversion rate, especially look at the account
type, and the job title variables. Account types will include industries, manufacturing models, site locations, and company size and location. While title analysis includes seniority levels and functional areas. We understand that both products can benefit a company so we will look at cross-sell successes and opportunities to see who MasterControl should target out of those companies that have already purchased Qx. We will also need to account for missing variables
that are throughout the data set.

# My Contribution
I took the lead on the Business Problem Statement call and handled many of the heavier paragraphs for that assignment. I also built out the first few helpful models to get our team started when we were delayed in beginning this process. During our presentation, I introduced the group and the business problem statement to MasterControl.

# The Business Value of Our Solution
Our model created a way for MasterControl to focus on better conversion opportunites in a tiered manner. They will be more productive with their outreach and may be able to limit the number of workers needed to perform these tasks. Generating more revenue and cutting costs allows MasterControl to keep growing and providing helpful solutions to potential clients who actually want it and need it.

# Difficulties Encountered
During this process, we had lots of missing data and we had to decide how to account for this . There were different ideas in the group for how to accomplish this but we eventually were able to work together and find a great solution. We also frequetly were turning in assignments right before the deadline. This likely occured because of poor or late communication and it caused some difficulties for our team.
# What I Learned
This was a great class and assignment that gave me great experience. I will pull from this in future job interviews and roles. I learned the importance of communicating early and often in your group. It is natural tendency to want to procrastinate but if you start with something small early on it decreases the amount of worry for everyone in the group. That is something I want to apply in all aspects of my life moving forward.
